a couch potato
Explanation:someone who spends a lot of time watching TV
Example:Paul is such a couch potato. He never does any exercise.

a piece of cake
Explanation:something very easy to do
Example:Learning English is a piece of cake. It's so easy!

a stone's throw
Explanation:near something
Example:I rented an apartment that's a stone's throw from my work.

all in a day's work
Explanation:activities that you do on a regular basis
Example:The cook made two hundred meals for lunch, but that’s all in a day's work for him.

as pretty as a picture
Explanation:be beautiful
Example:My mother likes to tell everyone how beautiful I am. She says I'm as pretty as a picture.

be on cloud nine
Explanation:be very happy
Example:I was on cloud nine when Giorgio asked me to go to the party with him.

beat around the bush
Explanation:avoid talking about something directly
Example:I told Ben to stop beating around the bush and tell me how much money he needs to borrow.

best of both worlds
Explanation:a situation where you get the benefits of two different things
Example:We got the best of both worlds at the concert last night. We had great seats and our tickets were free!

break someone's heart
Explanation:make someone sad because you don't love them
Example:Juan broke my heart when he said goodbye.

child's play
Explanation:easy to do
Example:Jesse fixed my car in five minutes. She said it was child's play for her.

come out of your shell
Explanation:become less shy and more friendly and talkative
Example:If you want to meet new people, you're going to have to come out of your shell.

come to blows
Explanation:disagree so much you start fighting with the other person
Example:It's amazing that two adults can come to blows over such a silly thing.

could eat a horse
Explanation:be very hungry
Example:I didn't eat anything all day. I'm so hungry I could eat a horse!

dog-eat-dog
Explanation:usually used in business, where people will do whatever it takes to succeed
Example:It's a dog-eat-dog world in the restaurant business.

down and out
Explanation:a homeless person
Example:He knows what it is like to be down and out. He lived on the streets when he was a young man.

for a song
Explanation:very cheaply
Example:My new dress cost $15. I bought it for a song!

get a bite to eat
Explanation:eat a light meal
Example:I was very busy today. I didn't even have time to get a bite to eat.

get something off the ground
Explanation:get a big project started
Example:I need to borrow money from the bank, so I can get my business off the ground.

get the ball rolling
Explanation:get something started
Example:The party was a little boring at first, but Peter got the ball rolling by playing some good dance music.

have your work cut out
Explanation:have a hard task or many tasks to complete
Example:I have two tests and a book report this week. I have my work cut out for me.

have a ball
Explanation:have a good time
Example:I'm going to Jamaica for the holidays. My sister was there last year and she had a ball.

have a lot on your plate
Explanation:have a lot of work to do
Example:My parents have a lot on their plate at the moment. My sister is getting married next week.

have a soft spot for someone
Explanation:like someone or something very much
Example:I have a soft spot for Dan. I never get angry with him.

have the upper hand
Explanation:have the advantage over someone else
Example:He has the upper hand now that he is a millionaire.

in hot water
Explanation:in trouble
Example:If you continue coming late to work, you will really be in hot water.

in over your head
Explanation:involved in something too difficult to handle
Example:This math class is hard. I'm in over my head.

in the pipeline
Explanation:something that is in process or being planned
Example:We have a new project in the pipeline for the end of this year.

in the red
Explanation:when you owe money
Example:I can't buy a new computer, I'm already in the red.

keep an eye on
Explanation:watch closely
Example:I have to keep an eye on Jeff everywhere we go. When I don't, he runs away.

keep your head above water
Explanation:try hard to survive, usually applies to having enough money
Example:I have to work three jobs just to keep my head above water.

make your blood boil
Explanation:make you very angry
Example:His lies make my blood boil.

mix business with pleasure
Explanation:mix work with enjoyable activities
Example:He never goes out with clients on the weekends. He doesn't like to mix business with pleasure.

not your cup of tea
Explanation:something you don't like or aren't interested in
Example:I never go to science fiction movies. They aren't my cup of tea.

on a roll
Explanation:when things are going very well; having a lot of success
Example:Everyone was laughing at my jokes. I was really on a roll!

on the ball
Explanation:be quick and smart
Example:He knew all the answers. He was really on the ball today.

over the moon
Explanation:very happy about something
Example:The pop star is over the moon about the way his new album was received.

paint the town red
Explanation:go out and celebrate
Example:We won the football match! I'm so happy. Let's go and paint the town red.

play something by ear
Explanation:do something without a plan
Example:I don't know what we'll do when we get to Paris. We'll play it by ear and see what happens.

pull a few strings
Explanation:use your influence to get what you want
Example:My friend said that he would pull a few strings at his company to get me a job.

put your feet up
Explanation:have a rest after working hard
Example:When I get home, I usually put my feet up for a few minutes.

put your foot down
Explanation:say no to something
Example:Kate can't come out with us. Her father put his foot down. He said she can't go out at night anymore.

put your money where your mouth is
Explanation:to support something you think is important
Example:I always say I should lose weight. But I need to put my money where my mouth is and start exercising!

raining cats and dogs
Explanation:raining very heavily
Example:We had to cancel the picnic because it was raining cats and dogs.

red tape
Explanation:formal processes that make getting things done difficult and slow
Example:It's so hard to open a business in this country. There is so much red tape.

see eye to eye
Explanation:agree
Example:I don't want to fight anymore. Let's talk about it until we see eye to eye.

see red
Explanation:become very angry
Example:I saw red when my friends laughed at me.

see the light
Explanation:understand something
Example:It took me a long time to understand computers. Then one day, I finally saw the light.

take a break
Explanation:stop working for a while
Example:Jesse and I are taking a break from work. We'll be back in a week.

take a cat nap
Explanation:a short sleep during the day (like a short siesta)
Example:I'm so tired. Maybe if I take a cat nap I'll feel better.

take somewhere by storm
Explanation:someone or something that is very successful and popular
Example:That young Australian actor has taken Hollywood by storm.

tie the knot
Explanation:get married
Example:Gina and Roberto have decided to tie the knot. They told everyone last night.

under your nose
Explanation:easy to find
Example:I often can't find things, even when something is under my nose!

walk on air
Explanation:be very happy
Example:Jim won a gold medal for swimming. He was so happy, he was walking on air.

win-win
Explanation:when a situation is good for everyone involved
Example:Both sides were happy with the sale of the company. It was a win-win deal.



a tall order
Explanation:something that is difficult to do
Example:Our team needs six goals to get into the Final Four. That's a very tall order.

above board
Explanation:honest and open
Example:The lawyer checked the contract to make sure the agreement was above board.

be out of line
Explanation:behave badly
Example:If you step out of line in this company, you're in trouble.

bent out of shape
Explanation:be very worried about something
Example:Ron is bent out of shape about his presentation tomorrow. He simply can't relax.

beyond your wildest dreams
Explanation:much better than you expected
Example:The new house was beautiful. It was beyond our wildest dreams.

bull in a china shop
Explanation:someone who is clumsy and upsets other people
Example:I always bring out paper cups and plates when Susan comes over for tea. She's so careless, she's like a bull in a china shop.

butter someone up
Explanation:compliment someone to get what you want
Example:If you butter Jack up, you can get anything you want from him.

cross your mind
Explanation:get an idea
Example:I almost bought Janet a Louis Armstrong CD. Then it crossed my mind that Janet doesn't like jazz.

cut corners
Explanation:avoid doing something completely or in the best way in order to save time or money
Example:When it comes to your health, you don't want to cut corners. Make sure you go to the doctor regularly for check-ups.

drag your feet
Explanation:do something slowly or with resistance
Example:He was supposed to get a promotion three months ago, but the boss is really dragging his feet.

drive someone crazy
Explanation:bother someone a lot
Example:Keiko is always calling me at night. She's driving me crazy.

eat like a horse
Explanation:eat a lot
Example:He has such a large appetite. He eats like a horse.

eat your heart out
Explanation:be angry with yourself about something
Example:Don't eat your heart out over losing the money. Money isn't important.

every cloud has a silver lining
Explanation:you can always find something good in a bad situation
Example:The new office is further from my home, but it's much closer to the gym; so every cloud has a silver lining!

fit the bill
Explanation:to have the qualities or experience that someone needs
Example:We wanted a pretty home in a quiet location. So this house really fits the bill!

from the horse's mouth
Explanation:hear something from the person who knows the most about it
Example:I'm sure that company is closing. I heard it from the horse's mouth.

get on like a house on fire
Explanation:get on very well
Example:Maria and Hank get on so well. From the first day they met, they got on like a house on fire.

get out of hand
Explanation:it cannot be controlled
Example:The strike at the factory is getting out of hand. No one is in control anymore.

get something straight
Explanation:understand something fully
Example:Now get this straight, you must do your homework before you go out with your friends.

get the picture
Explanation:understand what someone is telling you
Example:It took Claudio a while before he understood what I wanted him to do. Now he gets the picture and he's doing really well.

get the point
Explanation:understand the main idea
Example:I listened to the lecture from beginning to end and I still don't get the point.

give someone the cold shoulder
Explanation:take no notice of someone; ignore someone
Example:When I started in my new job, I felt like everyone was giving me the cold shoulder.

go in one ear and out the other
Explanation:to be ignored
Example:My kids never listen to me. Everything I say goes in one ear and out the other.

has a heart of gold
Explanation:be generous
Example:Costa has a heart of gold. He'll give you his last dollar if you need it.

have a head start
Explanation:have an advantage over someone
Example:Jeanette has a head start over all of us for this job in Paris because she speaks French.

have something in mind
Explanation:have an idea or thoughts about something specific
Example:I have something really special in mind for my wife's birthday.

have something up your sleeve
Explanation:have a secret plan or idea
Example:We were sure we could beat the enemy. We didn't know they had a few tricks up their sleeve.

hit it off
Explanation:when two people like each other from the moment they meet
Example:Juan and Kim met each other at work. They hit it off straight away and now they are best friends.

hit the ground running
Explanation:do something really well from the beginning
Example:If we are going to increase sales by 20% by the end of this quarter, we'll really have to hit the ground running.

hit the roof
Explanation:suddenly become very angry
Example:My parents hit the roof when I told them I wanted a motorbike for my birthday.

lay your cards on the table
Explanation:speak openly about your thoughts, plans, or actions
Example:Just to lay my cards on the table, I'm not planning on quitting my job.

let your hair down
Explanation:really relax and enjoy yourself
Example:I like to let my hair down once in a while and have a really good time.

off the top of your head
Explanation:without thinking
Example:I didn't know what to say when the police officer stopped me. I just said something off the top of my head.

old hat
Explanation:something that is old-fashioned or out-of-date
Example:This advertising campaign is old hat, we need some new ideas.

on the fence
Explanation:not take sides in a dispute; not able to decide something
Example:The mayor is still on the fence about the tax issue.

on the spur of the moment
Explanation:suddenly
Example:We packed our bags on the spur of the moment and drove off to the country.

once in a blue moon
Explanation:something that doesn't happen very often
Example:I hardly know my cousins who live in America. We only see each other once in a blue moon.

out of the blue
Explanation:unexpectedly
Example:Last night, an old friend called me out of the blue. It was such a nice surprise.

pass the buck
Explanation:shift the blame, or responsibility, to someone else
Example:No one is taking responsibility for the mistake. Everyone's just passing the buck.

pay through the nose
Explanation:pay a high price for something
Example:I just bought a very expensive stereo for our living room. I paid through the nose for it, but it's worth it.

pick up steam
Explanation:gain strength; gradually gather momentum; improve at a quicker rate
Example:The runner was slow at first, but in the last few miles he really began to pick up steam.

pull someone's leg
Explanation:joke about something that isn't true
Example:I never believe anything Ronnie tells me. He's always pulling my leg.

pull your weight
Explanation:do your fair share of work, especially in a group
Example:If you don't start pulling your weight around here, we're going to have to fire you.

ring a bell
Explanation:sound familiar
Example:Are you sure we met on a camping trip? That doesn't ring a bell.

save someone the trouble
Explanation:do something so someone else doesn't have to
Example:Rob saved me the trouble of cooking. He brought home Chinese food for dinner.

show someone the ropes
Explanation:show someone how things are done; show someone the basics
Example:I was worried about starting my new job this week, but my co-worker showed me the ropes, and now I'm much more relaxed.

take someone under your wing
Explanation:to help and protect someone
Example:Don't worry, Mrs. Carmel. Judy will take your daughter under her wing. She'll have a wonderful time at camp.

talk until the cows come home
Explanation:talk for hours
Example:Nancy and I stayed up talking until the morning. We talked until the cows came home.

the eleventh hour
Explanation:at the very last minute
Example:Tonight's concert was cancelled at the eleventh hour because the singer got sick.

the last straw
Explanation:the final event of several, leading up to an angry or unpleasant outcome
Example:Barry didn't come in to work again today. This is the last straw! I'm going to fire him.

the sky's the limit
Explanation:there's no limit; the possibilities are endless
Example:That's such a prestigious school. If you graduate from there, the sky's the limit in terms of opportunities.

two heads are better than one
Explanation:Two people working together can accomplish more, or solve a problem more easily, than one person working alone.
Example:I need your help thinking of a name for my company, because two heads are better than one.

under the weather
Explanation:feeling unwell
Example:You should try getting out of bed even though you feel under the weather.



ask for the moon
Explanation:ask for something you cannot possibly have or achieve
Example:We're not asking for the moon. We would just like some peace and quiet for an hour.

at your wits' end
Explanation:be very worried or upset about a problem
Example:I had lost my money and my suitcase and was all alone in a strange city. I was truly at my wits' end.

bite off more than you can chew
Explanation:take on more than you can handle
Example:Natasha promised to get the film ready for the film festival by September. Now she's realized that she's bitten off more than she can chew.

break the ice
Explanation:do or say something at a party or meeting to help people feel relaxed
Example:Many speakers tell a joke at the beginning of their lecture. It helps break the ice.

catch someone's eye
Explanation:when something suddenly attracts your attention
Example:I liked a lot of their sunglasses, but this pair really caught my eye!

caught between a rock and a hard place
Explanation:when you have to choose between two undesirable options; in a very difficult position
Example:In order to pay my rent this month, I either have to sell my car or give up on my summer vacation. I'm caught between a rock and a hard place.

chicken feed
Explanation:a very small amount of money
Example:The company pays us chicken feed for overtime work. I won't agree to do it anymore.

cut to the chase
Explanation:get to the point
Example:He's been talking forever. I wish he'd just cut to the chase and tell us what's happening.

down in the dumps
Explanation:sad or depressed
Example:I'm worried about Cara. She's been down in the dumps a lot lately.

get a second wind
Explanation:get more energy after being tired
Example:After our exhausting day touring Budapest, I got a second wind and revisited the sights at night.

get the hang of
Explanation:succeed in learning something
Example:I finally got the hang of playing tennis. I actually beat Melissa in a match yesterday!

go overboard
Explanation:do something too much
Example:l love Helen's cooking. But she always goes overboard with the salt.

go the extra mile
Explanation:make an extra effort to do something
Example:Many of society's most successful people are the ones who were ready to go the extra mile.

grain of truth
Explanation:the smallest amount of truth
Example:Don't believe him. There isn't a grain of truth in what he's saying.

great minds think alike
Explanation:at least two people having the same idea at the same time
Example:My sister and I bumped into each other at that new Japanese restaurant last night! That shows that great minds think alike.

have second thoughts
Explanation:have doubts about something
Example:I hope you're not having second thoughts about going to the rock concert next week. I spent $200 for front row tickets.

if push comes to shove
Explanation:if absolutely necessary; if need be
Example:I don't enjoy organizing conferences, but if push comes to shove, I'll do it.

in a slump
Explanation:not perform well for a period of time
Example:Williams was the team's best player, and now he's missing every basket. He's really in a slump.

in good hands
Explanation:being cared for or protected by someone you can trust
Example:When I leave my son with you, I know he's in good hands.

lead the field
Explanation:be most successful in an activity or competition
Example:Many Asian countries lead the field in the area of high tech.

leave the nest
Explanation:when children leave their parents' home to live independently
Example:It's a little lonely now that all the kids have left the nest.

let the cat out of the bag
Explanation:tell someone something that they're not supposed to know
Example:My sister let the cat out of the bag and told our mom what we bought her. Now it's not a surprise.

like water off a duck's back
Explanation:make no impression on someone
Example:My sister is always in a good mood. Criticism doesn't affect her. It's like water off a duck's back.

live like a king
Explanation:to live a luxurious and very comfortable lifestyle
Example:The CEO was living like a king - and at the expense of the workers.

look for a needle in a haystack
Explanation:something that is almost impossible to find
Example:I will never find Janet's phone number in the telephone book. There are thousands of "Browns." It's like looking for a needle in a haystack.

lose your head
Explanation:panic in a difficult situation
Example:If you're in an accident, it is important not to lose your head. You must stay calm.

lose your mind
Explanation:become crazy
Example:You let Derek borrow your car? Have you lost your mind?

make a pitch
Explanation:tell people how good something is, and try to convince them to buy it or support it
Example:You have exactly ten minutes to make your pitch to the board members.

make ends meet
Explanation:be able to pay for what you need
Example:I need a better paying job. I hardly make enough money to make ends meet.

make headway
Explanation:make progress in what you are trying to achieve
Example:Wow. Your apartment's looking great. You're really making headway with the renovations.

neck and neck
Explanation:when competitors in a race are so close you don't know who is winning
Example:It's hard to tell who will win the elections because both parties are running neck and neck.

not lift a finger
Explanation:do nothing to help someone
Example:My children don't lift a finger to help me around the house.

off limits
Explanation:somewhere you are not allowed to go
Example:This room is off limits to all journalists.

off the beaten track
Explanation:not known or popular with many people; in a remote location
Example:I like traveling to places that are off the beaten track.

on the dot
Explanation:arrive or do something exactly on time
Example:They wake up every morning at 7 o'clock on the dot.

on the double
Explanation:do something very quickly or immediately
Example:When I heard how excited you were, I decided to come over on the double.

out of the question
Explanation:impossible or not allowed
Example:I can't go jogging with you this morning. My doctor told me that any physical exercise is out of the question.

pain in the neck
Explanation:very annoying
Example:Liane is such a pain in the neck these days. All she talks about is her new job.

pay the price
Explanation:suffer the consequences of doing something
Example:I can't keep my eyes open. I guess I'm paying the price for going to sleep so late.

play your cards right
Explanation:do something to help you succeed
Example:In order to get my mother-in-law to like me, I have to play my cards right.

short change someone
Explanation:give less than someone expected
Example:We saw a modern version of a Shakespeare play last night. There was no music and no costumes. We were really short changed!

spell something out
Explanation:explain in detail
Example:Sonia doesn't understand jokes. You have to spell them out for her.

stick in the mud
Explanation:a person who isn't willing to try anything new
Example:We never go out to eat because Robert is such a stick in the mud. He believes that the only food worth eating is home cooking.

take someone's word for it
Explanation:believe something someone tells you even though you didn't verify that it is true
Example:This camera will take much better pictures than your old one. Take my word for it.

the bottom line
Explanation:the most important point you are trying to make - often refers to how much something is going to cost
Example:I argue with my boyfriend a lot. But the bottom line is we really do love each other.

tied up
Explanation:busy; unavailable
Example:I'm sorry. Mr. Davis is tied up at the moment. Can I take a message?

up for grabs
Explanation:available to be taken by anyone; available to anyone who wants to compete for it
Example:I don't want these books anymore. They're up for grabs.

up in the air
Explanation:not decided
Example:I might be going to California on a business trip. I'm not too excited yet because it's still up in the air.

walk on eggshells
Explanation:be very careful about what you say or how you behave around someone because you may easily upset him/her
Example:Daniella is so sensitive these days, I really have to watch what I say around her. It's like walking on eggshells.

with no strings attached
Explanation:give help without expecting anything in return
Example:In politics it is rare for someone to help you with no strings attached.

without rhyme or reason
Explanation:something that has no reasonable explanation or obvious reason
Example:The company fired Tim without rhyme or reason.

work your fingers to the bone
Explanation:work very hard for a long time
Example:She worked her fingers to the bone to make this company what it is today.



