intense
adjective
causing worry or fear
Wow, that was intense. 
The trip was very intense because we had many problems with the airplane, and we experienced very bad weather.

severe
adjective
very strong or serious
Would that be considered severe turbulence?
The weather was too severe to fly in, so we couldn't make the flight to Dallas.

turbulence
noun
moving around quickly a lot during a flight because of weather conditions
Would that be considered severe turbulence?
The turbulence made it difficult to walk in the airplane.

choppy
adjective
not smooth
That was choppy all right. 
The bad weather made the flight feel very choppy.

moderate
adjective
not strong and not weak; medium
Not quite severe, just moderate.
We experienced moderate turbulence during the flight; it made our coffee spill but didn't make us worry too much.

fluctuation
noun
a quick change from more to less or less to more
In severe turbulence, fluctuations caused by the wind would cause greater loss of control.
The wind fluctuations were so strong that it was difficult to control the airplane in flight.

encounter
verb
to see or experience something
Piper 34, we’ve just departed Chicago, and we encountered moderate turbulence at five hundred feet.
It looks like when we get near New York, we may encounter some bad weather.

low-level wind shear
phrase
a quick change in wind speed or direction over a short distance, within two thousand feet above ground level
And low-level wind shear off the departure of Runway 15 at five hundred feet.
A low-level wind shear can make landing an airplane difficult.

departure
noun
the end part of the path an airplane uses to take off
And low-level wind shear off the departure of Runway 15 at five hundred feet.
A pilot reported a strange object on the departure of Runway 5, so we had to wait to take off.

runway
noun
the path an airplane uses to take off and land
And low-level wind shear off the departure of Runway 15 at five hundred feet.
The airplane landed smoothly onto the runway.

maneuver
verb
to move something in a special way to achieve a certain purpose
First, I maneuvered us out of the turbulence.
Pilots learn to skillfully maneuver airplanes through storms.

radio
verb
to communicate with someone by radio
When I felt fully in control, I radioed the tower.
Let's radio the tower to let them know there are some dangerous winds here.

