fuel gauge
noun
a part that shows how much fuel a vehicle or fuel tank has
His fuel gauge doesn’t seem to be working properly.
When we looked at the fuel gauge, we could see that the tank was only half full.

indicate
verb
to show something
He says it’s indicating a different amount than what’s actually in the tank. 
A warning message indicated that there was a problem with the engine.

out of calibration
phrase
not measuring correctly according to a standard
The fuel gauge could be out of calibration. 
The mechanic needed to fix the pressure gauge because it was out of calibration.

fuel-level sensor
noun
a part in the fuel tank that measures how much fuel is in the tank
Or the fuel-level sensor in the tank might be defective. 
Since the fuel-level sensor broke, we didn't know that we had gotten low on fuel.

defective
adjective
not working properly, often because it was not properly made
Or the fuel-level sensor in the tank might be defective.
The switch was defective; when I turned it on, it didn't work.

attitude
noun
the position of an airplane in flight in relationship to the horizon
Oh, and the pilot also mentioned there seems to be something a little off with the plane’s flight attitude. 
The attitude of the plane changed when there was a problem with the left wing.

tendency
noun
When something often behaves in a certain way, it has a tendency to behave that way.
Seems it has a slight tendency to roll left and pitch down over the course of the flight. 
The airplane had a tendency to turn to the right.

roll
verb
to rotate toward the right or the left
Seems it has a slight tendency to roll left and pitch down over the course of the flight. 
The airplane rolled quickly to the right just before the accident.

pitch
verb
to rotate in a way that makes the aircraft point up or down at an angle
Seems it has a slight tendency to roll left and pitch down over the course of the flight. 
The airplane pitched down, but the pilot brought the nose back up.

aileron
noun
an important control surface on an airplane wing that helps the plane rotate to the left or right
I’ll check the ailerons and the elevator and let you know what I find out.
The problem with the aileron made the plane roll to the left too quickly.

elevator
noun
a control surface on an airplane tail that helps the plane rotate up or down
I’ll check the ailerons and the elevator and let you know what I find out.
The problem with the elevator made the airplane pitch down.

do some troubleshooting
phrase
to try to find what is making a problem happen
I’ll do some troubleshooting and let you know how long everything will take.
We did some troubleshooting and found that the problem was on the right wing of the airplane.

